Let's start with filter methods.
Filter methods are one of
the supervised methods of
doing feature selection,
which includes wrapper methods
and embedded methods also.
But for filter methods,
we're primarily using correlation
to look for the features that
contain the information that
we're going to use to
predict our target.
Univariate feature
selection is also very
often used for efficiency really.
Let's take a look at
some filter methods.
Correlated features are usually
redundant as we
just talked about.
When you have to
features that are
highly correlated
with each other,
that usually is an indicator
that they're redundant.
You want to choose one of
those so you remove
the other one.
Popular filter methods
include Pearson correlation.
These are different
ways to do correlation.
Pearson correlation is one.
That's correlation
between features and
between the features
and the label.
That's why it's a
supervised method.
You can also do univariate
feature selection
which is very common.
Filter methods; well, we are
going to start with all of
the features and
we're going to select
the best subset and
we're going to give
those to our model and
that's going to give us
our performance
for the model with
this subset of our features.
One of the ways to visualize this
is really correlation matrix.
We can look for features where
we can see that there is
a correlation between two
or more of our features.
It helps show how
features are related,
both to each other and with
the target variable
and to emphasize that,
when they're unrelated to
each other, that's bad.
You only want one of
those and of course,
you do want it correlated
with a target.
That's going to fall in
a range of correlation
between negative 1 and one and
one is highly
positive correlation
and negative 1 is highly
negative correlation.
Comparing the different tests,
you have Pearson's correlation
for linear relationships.
That's by far I think
the most common.
Kendall Tau is a rank
correlation coefficient,
looks at monotonic relationships,
and it's usually used with
a fairly small sample
size for efficiency.
Spearman's is another one.
It's also rank correlation and it
also is looking at
monotonic relationship.
Other methods; well,
there's mutual information.
Mutual information has some
nice characteristics to it.
F-test, that's another fairly
common one and chi-squared.
Chi-square is also a
fairly common one.
Looking at how we
would do this in code,
let's just take a look using
Pearson's correlation.
This is going to use pandas.
We have a data frame and we're
using the
Pearsoncorrelation.cor method.
That gives us our correlation
and we can then draw
our heat map with
seaborn and that's what
that's going to look like.
That gives us our
correlation matrix.
Looking at it again,
we've got the absolute value of
that and we can
select our target.
That gives us our result with
a subset of our features
that we've selected.
In this case, we've eliminated
seven features because
they were correlated.
Now, we have instead of 30,
we have 21 features in
our feature vector.
The accuracy is actually better,
the AUC is actually better,
precision is actually better
and recall is exactly the same.
At least have five
decimal places.
The F1 score is a little better.
Removing features,
mostly almost all our
metrics improved.
That also goes along with
the improvements that we made in
the compute resources that are
required to process 21
features instead of 30.
That's our best result so far.
Let's look at univariate
feature selection.
Univariate feature selection and
we're going to do that
using Sci-kit learn.
There's SelectKBest,
there's SelectPercentile,
GenericUnivariateSelect,
which is fairly generic I assume.
Some statistical tests
we can use with that,
there's mutual information and
F-tests for regression problems.
For classification, we have
chi-squared and
there's a version of
the F-test for classification
and similarly for
mutual information,
there's a version of
that for classification.
Let's look at how that
gets implemented in code.
We've got a function
that we're going to
define for univariate selection.
It's going to take our test set,
actually our training
set has been split for
both training and
test and then that's
going to be scaled
with a standard
scalar and we're going to use
the MinMaxScalar
as well to give us
a scaled x and then our
selector we're going to
use is the SelectKBest and
we're going to use that with
the chi-squared test and that's
going to look for the
20 best features here.
We're going to fit
that transform,
we're going to get the features
that it selects
and we're going to
drop the other features
in our original data set.
That gives us the feature names
of the features that
we've selected.
How does that perform?
Well, a univariate test
using chi-squared,
we asked for 20 features,
so it gave us 20 features.
The accuracy dropped
a little bit,
so did the AUC,
so did the precision,
but recall interestingly did not,
its still exactly the
same and the F1 score
is unfortunately a
little bit lower.
The correlation is
still our best result.
It's one more feature,
but it's still our best result.